the CT is actually very simple if we're
doing a calcium score without a CT
angiogram
there's no IV all that happens is they
get a couple of EKG leads put on them
they go into the CT scanner which is
like the big doughnut they take a quick
Scout film and then there's instructions
to hold the breath and the the scanner
rotates very quickly around the patient
and they wouldn't feel anything and as
soon as the the whole heart is scanned
the the test is over so that's really
all there is to it it takes about five
minutes total and about you know 10 to
15 seconds of scanning time if we're
doing a CT angiogram then it requires us
to put an intravenous line into a vein
in the arm just in front of the elbow
and they get a contrast injection and
then roughly the same procedure that I
just described for the non contrasted
skin but it takes a little bit longer
because there's a little bit more
technical work to be done when we
administer contrast but still that the
whole study is typically done in ten
minutes or less we sometimes use drugs
to slow the heart rate if the heart rate
is fast because that gives us better
pictures of the heart and usually we can
just give people a pill either the night
before the morning off to help do that
we generally give people a pill of
nitroglycerin as well to help open up
the artery so we can see them better but
those are the only drugs that are given
right now if we're doing some sort of a
stress test during MRI then we have to
use drugs to de-stress the heart and so
we we usually use a drug called
adenosine if we're doing a stress test
in the magnet and if we're doing a
stress test in the echo lab we either
put the patient on the treadmill and
have them walk to stress the heart or we
use medication that makes the heart beat
fast and hard
if we decide that there is something
significant I would likely make a call
to the doctor that referred the patient
there and say I think this patient has a
significant blockage we ought to go on
and do some kind of a stress test or we
got to take them straight to the the
cath lab to do invasive angiography and
see if there's something that needs to
be stented in there or it could even
have a consultation with a surgeon if we
think there's something that needs to be
fixed surgically our goal is when
possible to even have a result while the
patient is still nearby and so that we
could we can give them follow-up
sometimes let them see the images of
their heart and help make arrangements
and obviously if there's something
immediately concerning then then we
could potentially take them straight to
the interventional lab if need be